# Siddharth Patel - Week of 06/25/2021 - Report 2



## 1. Work done

### 1.1 Papers Read
---

The Sound of Data [[Link](https://programminghistorian.org/en/lessons/sonification#introduction)]: Sonifying data is another way of understanding data, maybe new insights are found from the auditory system than from the visual system. Three different ways to sonify data; Musicalgorithms, MIDITime, Sonic Pi. Going from MP3 to MIDI and back to MP3, is an interesting concept that I want to explore with the PLAsTiCC Data I sonified. 


---


### 1.2 Code Written 
sonifyPLAsTiCC.ipynb [[GitHub Link](https://github.com/fedhere/RubinRhapsodies/blob/main/sonifyPLAsTiCC.ipynb)]: Used the Astronify python package to sonify one of the PLAsTiCC training light curves. At first I just sonified all flux and time points together without differentiating each passband, as one .wav file (sonifyLCA.wav). Then I created a .wav file for each passband, and stacked them together in Garage band to create a single .mp3 file (ugrizy 31601139 slowed.mp3).





## 2. Figures (at least 1 figure)

**No figures this week, but rather sound clips!**

sonifyLCA.wav [[GitHub Link](https://github.com/fedhere/RubinRhapsodies/blob/main/Sid's%20Weekly%20Reports/report2%20sound%20clips/sonifyLCA.wav)]

ugrizy 31601139 slowed.mp3 [[GitHub Link](https://github.com/fedhere/RubinRhapsodies/blob/main/Sid's%20Weekly%20Reports/report2%20sound%20clips/ugrizy%2031601139%20slowed.mp3)]






## 3. Results

This week, the main goal was to sonify the PLAsTiCC training light curves and get very familiar with Astronify. This was accomplished, and after the reading on MIDI, I decided to try to convert the .mp3 file of the passbands to MIDI. Then give each passband its own unique instrument, since they are already on different pitches. Trying to make an amateur version of what the Chandra Observatory did with their sonification [[Link](https://chandra.harvard.edu/photo/2020/sonify/)]





## 4. Planning

Use and find more advanced programs than Garage band, to play around with different ways to interpret the sounds generated by sonifyPLAsTiCC.ipynb, for example incorporating flux error into the final sound.

